# MSLC25 Data

## Overview
This directory contains data and additional figures associated with the paper [_MSLC25: Metric Performance on Low-Quality Machine Translation, Empty Strings, and Language Variants_](https://aclanthology.org/2025.wmt-1.69/) by Rebecca Knowles, Samuel Larkin, and Chi-kiu Lo, published at WMT 2025.


## Data
Within the `data/` directory, you will find two subdirectories, covering the two halves of the 2025 MSLC dataset: `MSLC-A/` and `MSLC-B/`. We use the two-letter codes here for consistency with the Metrics task. These are as follows: English (en; with or without GB or US locale codes), Czech (cs), Japanese (ja), and Chinese (zh; with or without the CN locale code).

The `MSLC-A` data focuses on the range of MT quality (low- to mid-level quality), while the `MLSC-B` data targets more specific phenomena.

### MSLC-A
Within the `MSLC-A/` directory you will find subdirectories that are designed to be similar to the ones used by MTME ([https://github.com/google-research/mt-metrics-eval#specification](https://github.com/google-research/mt-metrics-eval#specification)). They contain the MT output from the systems in the `MSLC25-A` challenge set as well as the scores assigned to those by the participating metrics. All language pairs use `refA` as the reference. The source and reference text are available at [https://github.com/wmt-conference/wmt25-general-mt](https://github.com/wmt-conference/wmt25-general-mt).

- `documents/SRC-TRG.docs`: For the given `SRC-TRG` language pair, this file contains tab-separated data, where the first column is the domain and the second is the document name. Our data only consists of the `news` domain data from the WMT test sets. These document IDs can be used to match the system outputs to source and reference data (available at [https://github.com/wmt-conference/wmt25-general-mt](https://github.com/wmt-conference/wmt25-general-mt)).
    - Per-line contents: DOMAIN DOCUMENT
    - Line order matches WMT source and reference
- `system-outputs/SRC-TRG/SYSNAME.txt`: For the given `SRC-TRG` language pair and an MT system (`SYSNAME`), this file contains the MT system's output (over the same set of lines in the same order as listed in the `documents/SRC-TRG.docs`) file. These translations were produced by the MT systems trained for the MSLC24 paper and reused this year.
    - Per-line contents: Translation
    - Line order matches `documents/SRC-TRG.docs`
- `metric-scores/SRC-TRG/METRICNAME.seg.score`: For the given `SRC-TRG` language pair and metric `METRICNAME`, these files contain tab-separated data. The three columns are `DOMAIN` (always `news`), `SYSNAME` (the name of the MT system), and `SCORE` (the segment-level score). These metric scores were generated by participants in the Metrics shared task.
    - Per-line contents: DOMAIN SYSNAME SCORE
    - For each SYSNAME, the line order matches `documents/SRC-TRG.docs`
- `mapping/SRC-TRG.tsv`: For the language pair, this maps the MT system name from the number assigned to it in the challenge set to the letter name used in the [paper](https://aclanthology.org/2025.wmt-1.69/).
    - Per-line contents: SYSNAME LETTER

### MSLC-B
Within the `MSLC-B/` directory, you will find the data submitted for scoring as well as the metric scores. The mixed-language and wrong-language text is in the `mslc-b1` files, while the `mslc-b.ja-zh_CN` files contain empty strings data, and the `mslc-b.cs-en{_US,_GB}` files contain data for English spelling differences. This directory contains the following:
- `metric-scores/mslc-{b,b1}/{baseline,primary}/METRICNAME.tsv`: For the given metric `METRICNAME` this contains one score per line; the file contains scores for all hypotheses. These scores were generated by participants in the Metrics shared task.
- `*.meta.txt`: The meta files contain tab-separated DOMAIN DOCUMENT information for the submitted data.
- `*.src.txt`: The source text, one segment per line, same order as the corresponding `*meta.txt`.
- `*.ref.txt`: The reference text, one segment per line, same order as the corresponding `*meta.txt`.
- `*.hyp-n.txt`: For hypothesis _n_ this contains the hypothesis text, one segment per line, same order as the corresponding `*.meta.txt`. For `mslc-b1`, `hyp-1` is wrong-language text, while `hyp-2` is mixed-language text.
- `*.types`: Information about the phenomena covered in the MSLC-B challenge set, specifically for empty strings (whether the data is empty source and reference or empty hypothesis).

## Figures
For interactive figures, see: [https://nrc-cnrc.github.io/MSLC/2024/interactive/charts.html](https://nrc-cnrc.github.io/MSLC/2025/interactive/charts.html)

## Licence
The contents of this repository are released under a [CC-BY 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/) licence.

## Citing this work
If you choose to use this data, please cite:

```bibtex
@inproceedings{knowles-etal-2025-mslc25,
    title = "{MSLC}25: Metric Performance on Low-Quality Machine Translation, Empty Strings, and Language Variants",
    author = "Knowles, Rebecca  and
      Larkin, Samuel  and
      Lo, Chi-Kiu",
    editor = "Haddow, Barry  and
      Kocmi, Tom  and
      Koehn, Philipp  and
      Monz, Christof",
    booktitle = "Proceedings of the Tenth Conference on Machine Translation",
    month = nov,
    year = "2025",
    address = "Suzhou, China",
    publisher = "Association for Computational Linguistics",
    url = "https://aclanthology.org/2025.wmt-1.69/",
    pages = "945--956",
    ISBN = "979-8-89176-341-8"
}				      
```
